# Overview

NLP Service is a tool that provides services for ``Natural Language Processing``.


#### It provides the following services:

- ``Named-entity recognition (NER)`` for recognizing entities that are present in a given text document. NER works by locating and identifying the named entities present in unstructured text into the standard categories such as person names, locations, organizations, time expressions, quantities, monetary values, percentage, codes etc.
- ``Question and answer`` that, based on the search term query, extracts answers from the ElasticSearch results.
- ``Questions generation`` that is used for generating (question, answer) pairs based on a given text
- ``Question classifier`` that classifies a text as keyword query, interrogative query or declarative query
- ``Language detection`` for predicting a list of languages used inside a given text.
- ``Feedback`` that allows feedback input from users on the quality of the generated answers for a particular query.
- ``Converter`` that converts a text from a given URL into a list of Documents. It receives a URL with the given text and returns a list of Documents created based on the given text.
- ``Sentence Embedding`` used for representing sentences as semantically-meaningful real-valued vectors. 
- ``Semantically Re-ranked ElasticSearch queries`` a drop-in replacement of an ElasticSearch endpoint that can re-rank normal full-text queries. A service that combines search and QA.
- ``Similarity`` for computing the textual similarity between given text and a list of candidates texts
- ``Zeroshot Classifier`` for predicting the label of a text based on given list of candidate labels.

Each of the above services is generated by a configuration file and is based on a ``Haystack`` pipeline.

In the configuration file there are specified the path to the service component and the API route.

The APIs are created using ``FastAPI`` web framework.

It is based on ``Docker`` and ``Docker Compose``.

The NLP Service can be started by entering the Docker container and running, inside the Docker container, a run.sh script.